[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The building blocks of
humanity and all beings
on Earth originally
came from space.
We are all connected
physically and consciously,
a look back and forward at
what Carl Sagan famously said.
>> The cosmos is also within us.
We are made of star stuff.
We are a way for the
cosmos to know itself.
>> This is Gaia News.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Carl Sagan's famous line,
we are made of star stuff,
is not just hyperbole
or even theory.
A 2017 study showed the six
most common elements of life
on Earth, carbon, hydrogen,
nitrogen, oxygen, sulfur,
and phosphorus are
found in stars.
This idea has been
the driving force
for countless astronomers,
including Gaia News contributor
Marc Dantonio.
>> Carl Sagan was my
favorite astronomer.
And I heard him say
when he first said it.
We are made of star stuff, OK.
That man was absolutely correct.
Everything you're made of,
every atom in your body,
every atom in the room
around you, every atom in--
every single thing
on this planet,
was once made at millions,
and millions, and millions
of degrees in the
heart of a star.
And what do they do?
They explode when they're
done with their lives
because they run
out of their fuels.
And that stuff blows
out from the star.
Where does it go?
It goes everywhere.
It goes out in all
directions, and there are so
many trillions, upon
trillions, upon trillions
of massive supernovae that have
occurred that the universe is
littered with their debris.
And their debris happens
to be many of the elements
in our periodic table.
>> If we all come
from the same source,
what are the implications,
not just for humanity
but for the planet?
>> In terms of the
beings on this planet,
every single creature
on this planet,
and including the Earth
itself, and all the planets
in our solar system, and
all the moons, all right,
are literally all connected
because they were all made from
the very same solar nebula.
Basically, we're all family.
>> How does this physical,
tangible connection across
everything in our universe
translate into our collective
consciousness?
>> Have you ever been in a room?
You're sitting down, and
you think of someone you
haven't talked to in 10 years.
And that instant they call you?
Well, I talked about
that at a conference.
And I mentioned that on the
stage, the very first thing
I said.
I said how many has
that happened to?
And every single hand went up.
And, of course, everybody
started laughing.
Is that coincidence?
Science tends to tell you
that that's what it is.
But I don't think it is.
I think it's something known
as quantum entanglement
but at the more higher level.
I call it the "brainular" level.
Well, our brains
were manufactured
from all the elements
created by the solar nebula
here in this region
of the universe.
And, perhaps, there is a
link to life in general
when formed in the same
place, the same way.
We might look different.
We might be different,
very different.
But we might also have
this link, a very primitive
evolutionary link that goes all
the way back to the beginning.
And I wouldn't be
arrogant enough to say--
I would never be
arrogant about it
and say that can't
possibly happen.
You can't say that something
that you can't possibly
research yet can't
possibly happen.
You just have to say
it's an interesting idea.
And, maybe, it's true.
We would need more research.
>> What should people consider,
when we think about the fact
that all beings on Earth and
even our solar system are made
of star stuff?
>> It means that we're all
one species that's based
on the same chemistry.
At the very least, it means
that we should all be together
in a variety of ways.
We should all have a meeting
of the minds, so to speak.
Those minds, by
the way, which were
born of this tumultuous
universal beginning
in the hearts of a star,
in the heart of a star.
So I think that moving forward,
I think that what we need to do
is consider that
everything that we are
comes from everything
that we've been,
and comes from everything
that we were made from.
>> During divisive times, it
is important to remember we all
came from the same place.
And we're more alike
than different.
For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.
[MUSIC PLAYING]